CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Stirling-PDF

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Stirling-PDF! There are many ways to contribute other than writing code. For example, reporting bugs, creating suggestions, and adding or modifying translations.

## Issue Guidelines

Issues can be used to report bugs, request features, or ask questions. If you have a question, you could also ask us in our [Discord](https://discord.gg/FJUSXUSYec).

Before opening an issue, please check to make sure someone hasn't already opened an issue about it.

## Pull Requests

Before you start working on an issue, please comment on (or create) the issue and wait for it to be assigned to you. If someone has already been assigned but didn't have the time to work on it lately, please communicate with them and ask if they're still working on it. This is to avoid multiple people working on the same issue.

Once you have been assigned an issue, you can start working on it. When you are ready to submit your changes, open a pull request.
For a detailed pull request tutorial, see [this guide](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-create-a-pull-request-on-github).

Please make sure your Pull Request adheres to the following guidelines:

- Use the PR template provided.
- Keep your Pull Request title succinct, detailed and to the point.
- Keep commits atomic. One commit should contain one change. If you want to make multiple changes, submit multiple Pull Requests.
- Commits should be clear, concise and easy to understand.
- References to the Issue number in the Pull Request and/or Commit message.

## Translations

If you would like to add or modify a translation, please see [How to add new languages to Stirling-PDF](HowToAddNewLanguage.md). Also, please create a Pull Request so others can use it!

## Fixing Bugs or Adding a New Feature

First, make sure you've read the section [Pull Requests](#pull-requests).

To build from source, please follow this [Guide](LocalRunGuide.md).

If, at any point of time, you have a question, please feel free to ask in the same issue thread or in our [Discord](https://discord.gg/FJUSXUSYec).

## License

By contributing to this project, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the [GPL 3 License](LICENSE). You also acknowledge and agree that your contributions will be included in Stirling-PDF and that they can be relicensed in the future under the MPL 2.0 (Mozilla Public License Version 2.0) license.

Commit message:

Update CONTRIBUTING.md (#1115)
adding a chapter on how to edit Docs

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Stirling-PDF

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Stirling-PDF! There are many ways to contribute other than writing code. For example, reporting bugs, creating suggestions, and adding or modifying translations.

## Issue Guidelines

Issues can be used to report bugs, request features, or ask questions. If you have a question, you could also ask us in our [Discord](https://discord.gg/FJUSXUSYec).

Before opening an issue, please check to make sure someone hasn't already opened an issue about it.

## Pull Requests

Before you start working on an issue, please comment on (or create) the issue and wait for it to be assigned to you. If someone has already been assigned but didn't have the time to work on it lately, please communicate with them and ask if they're still working on it. This is to avoid multiple people working on the same issue.

Once you have been assigned an issue, you can start working on it. When you are ready to submit your changes, open a pull request.
For a detailed pull request tutorial, see [this guide](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-create-a-pull-request-on-github).

Please make sure your Pull Request adheres to the following guidelines:

- Use the PR template provided.
- Keep your Pull Request title succinct, detailed and to the point.
- Keep commits atomic. One commit should contain one change. If you want to make multiple changes, submit multiple Pull Requests.
- Commits should be clear, concise and easy to understand.
- References to the Issue number in the Pull Request and/or Commit message.

## Translations

If you would like to add or modify a translation, please see [How to add new languages to Stirling-PDF](HowToAddNewLanguage.md). Also, please create a Pull Request so others can use it!

## Docs

Documentation for Stirling-PDF is handled in a seperate repository. Please see [Docs repository](https://github.com/Stirling-Tools/Stirling-Tools.github.io) or use "edit this page"-button at the bottom of each page at [https://stirlingtools.com/docs/](https://stirlingtools.com/docs/).

## Fixing Bugs or Adding a New Feature

First, make sure you've read the section [Pull Requests](#pull-requests).

To build from source, please follow this [Guide](LocalRunGuide.md).

If, at any point of time, you have a question, please feel free to ask in the same issue thread or in our [Discord](https://discord.gg/FJUSXUSYec).

## License

By contributing to this project, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the [GPL 3 License](LICENSE). You also acknowledge and agree that your contributions will be included in Stirling-PDF and that they can be relicensed in the future under the MPL 2.0 (Mozilla Public License Version 2.0) license.
